Matthew 1:1
The book of the kin-steps of Jesus the Chosen One, son of David, son of Abraham.

Matthew 1:2
Abraham fathered Isaac, and Isaac fathered Jacob, and Jacob fathered Judah and his brothers.

Matthew 1:3
And Judah fathered Perez and Zerah from Tamar, and Perez fathered Hezron, and Hezron fathered Ram.

Matthew 1:4
And Ram fathered Amminadab, and Amminadab fathered Nahshon, and Nahshon fathered Salmon.

Matthew 1:5
And Salmon fathered Boaz from Rahab, and Boaz fathered Obed from Ruth, and Obed fathered Jesse.

Matthew 1:6
And Jesse fathered David the king, and David the king fathered Solomon from the wife of Uriah.

Matthew 1:7
And Solomon fathered Rehoboam, and Rehoboam fathered Abijah, and Abijah fathered Asa.

Matthew 1:8
And Asa fathered Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat fathered Joram, and Joram fathered Uzziah.

Matthew 1:9
And Uzziah fathered Jotham, and Jotham fathered Ahaz, and Ahaz fathered Hezekiah.

Matthew 1:10
And Hezekiah fathered Manasseh, and Manasseh fathered Amon, and Amon fathered Josiah.

Matthew 1:11
And Josiah fathered Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the out-casting to Babylon.

Matthew 1:12
And after the out-casting to Babylon, Jeconiah fathered Shealtiel, and Shealtiel fathered Zerubbabel.

Matthew 1:13
And Zerubbabel fathered Abiud, and Abiud fathered Eliakim, and Eliakim fathered Azor.

Matthew 1:14
And Azor fathered Zadok, and Zadok fathered Achim, and Achim fathered Eliud.

Matthew 1:15
And Eliud fathered Eleazar, and Eleazar fathered Matthan, and Matthan fathered Jacob.

Matthew 1:16
And Jacob fathered Joseph the husband of Mary, from whom was born Jesus who is called Chosen One.

Matthew 1:17
So all the kin-steps from Abraham to David are fourteen kin-steps, and from David to the out-casting to Babylon fourteen kin-steps, and from the out-casting to Babylon to the Chosen One fourteen kin-steps.

Matthew 1:18
Now the birth of Jesus the Chosen One was like this: When His mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to have a child in her from the Set Apart Breath.

Matthew 1:19
And Joseph her husband, being a rightly-lined man and not willing to shame her openly, minded to put her away in secret.

Matthew 1:20
But while he thought on these things, look, a messenger of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, fear not to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is shapen in her is from the Set Apart Breath.

Matthew 1:21
And she shall bring forth a son, and you shall call His name Jesus, for He shall shield His folk from their strayings.

Matthew 1:22
Now all this was done so that what was spoken by the Lord through the forth-teller might be made full, saying,

Matthew 1:23
Look, the maiden shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call His name Emmanuel, which read as is, God with us.

Matthew 1:24
Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the messenger of the Lord told him, and took to him his wife.

Matthew 1:25
And knew her not until she had brought forth her firstborn son, and he called His name Jesus.

Matthew 2:1
Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, look, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem,

Matthew 2:2
Saying, Where is He that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen His star in the east and are come to bow to Him.

Matthew 2:3
When Herod the king had heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.

Matthew 2:4
And when he had gathered all the head blosters and book-learned of the folk, he asked of them where the Chosen One should be born.

Matthew 2:5
And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the forth-teller,

Matthew 2:6
And you Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you shall come a Leader who shall shepherd My folk Israel.

Matthew 2:7
Then Herod, when he had called the wise men in secret, learned of them keenly what time the star appeared.

Matthew 2:8
And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and seek out heedfully for the young child, and when you have found Him, bring me word again, that I may come and bow to Him also.

Matthew 2:9
When they had heard the king, they went away, and look, the star which they saw in the east went before them, until it came and stood over where the young child was.

Matthew 2:10
When they saw the star, they were over-glad with exceeding great gladness.

Matthew 2:11
And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary His mother, and fell down and bowed to Him, and when they had opened their hoards they gave Him gifts, gold and white-smoke and myrrh.

Matthew 2:12
And being warned of God in a dream that they should not go back to Herod, they fared forth into their own land another way.

Matthew 2:13
And when they had fared forth, look, the messenger of the Lord appears to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise and take the young child and His mother and flee into Egypt, and be there until I bring you word, for Herod will seek the young child to kill Him.

Matthew 2:14
When he arose, he took the young child and His mother by night and fared forth into Egypt,

Matthew 2:15
And was there until the death of Herod, that it might be made full which was spoken by the Lord through the forth-teller, saying, Out of Egypt have I called My Son.

Matthew 2:16
Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked by the wise men, was exceeding wrathful, and sent forth and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem and in all its bounds, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had keenly learned of the wise men.

Matthew 2:17
Then was made full that which was spoken by Jeremy the forth-teller, saying,

Matthew 2:18
In Rama was there a voice heard, wailing and weeping and great sorrowing, Rachel weeping for her children and would not be soothed, because they are not.

Matthew 2:19
But when Herod was dead, look, a messenger of the Lord appears in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,

Matthew 2:20
Saying, Arise and take the young child and His mother and go into the land of Israel, for they are dead which sought the young child's life.

Matthew 2:21
And he arose and took the young child and His mother and came into the land of Israel.

Matthew 2:22
But when he heard that Archelaus did reign in Judea in the stead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither, and being warned of God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee,

Matthew 2:23
And he came and dwelt in a burgh called Nazareth, that it might be made full which was spoken by the forth-tellers, He shall be called a Nazarene.

Matthew 3:1
In those days came John the Dipper, crying out in the wilds of Judea,

Matthew 3:2
And saying, Turn your hearts, for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand.

Matthew 3:3
For this is he that was spoken of by the forth-teller Isaiah, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilds, Make ready the way of the Lord, make His paths straight.

Matthew 3:4
And the same John had his raiment of camel's hair and a leathern girdle about his loins, and his meat was locusts and wild honey.

Matthew 3:5
Then went out to him Jerusalem and all Judea and all the land about Jordan,

Matthew 3:6
And were dipped by him in Jordan, openly owning their strayings.

Matthew 3:7
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his dipping, he said to them, O brood of adders, who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come?

Matthew 3:8
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of a turned heart.

Matthew 3:9
And think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father, for I say to you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children to Abraham.

Matthew 3:10
And now also the axe is laid to the root of the trees, therefore every tree which brings not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire.

Matthew 3:11
I indeed dip you with water to a turned heart, but He that comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear, He shall dip you with the Set Apart Breath and with fire.

Matthew 3:12
Whose fan is in His hand, and He will thoroughly clean His threshing floor and gather His wheat into the barn, but He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.

Matthew 3:13
Then comes Jesus from Galilee to Jordan to John to be dipped by him.

Matthew 3:14
But John held Him back, saying, I have need to be dipped of You, and You come to me?

Matthew 3:15
And Jesus answering said to him, Let it be so now, for thus it becomes us to make full all right-lining. Then he let Him be.

Matthew 3:16
And Jesus, when He was dipped, went up straightway out of the water, and look, the heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Breath of God coming down like a dove and lighting upon Him.

Matthew 3:17
And look a voice from heaven, saying, This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
